imagine you could run an ad that
targeted people within ten miles of your
business or even zip codes or countries
counties states well guess what
with Google ads location targeting you
can do just that hey how's it going my
name is Sylvia Perez and in this video
I'm gonna show you how you can use
Google Ads location targeting to murder
your local competition so I'm gonna go
ahead and hop into my computer and show
you step by step over my shoulder
everything it is you need to know to use
Google Ads location targeting and start
dominating your local market let's get
started okay guys here we are in the
Google Ads interface to get started
let's go ahead and go to the campaign's
tab and click on the campaign where you
want to set your location settings for
so I'm gonna go ahead and click on
tutorial and to go to your location
settings and you're targeting we're
gonna go ahead and go to the left hand
side and click on locations down here
under settings once we click on that now
we've opened up the location targeting
interface this is where you can go ahead
and setup all the locations you want to
target and not just the locations you
want to target but also the locations
you want to exclude as well so let's go
ahead and click on this blue pencil and
set up some target all right here we are
so this is where we're gonna set our
location targeting so there's three
types of location target you can do you
can do specifically location targeting
which is where you know exactly the
country city region or postal code you
want to target or you can do radius
targeting which basically sets up a
perimeter around a certain address or
location within a certain mile of people
that you want to reach and then the last
one is you can set up bulk location
targeting and with bulk location
targeting you can put in a tons of
different ZIP codes or countries or
cities or states and just target all of
them at once so this with bulk location
targeting it gives you more speed in
setting up your targeting if you have a
lot of places you want to target block
location targeting is really useful so
let's go ahead and walk through this so
we're gonna set up location targeting
first so let's say I want to target
Miami Florida
so I search Miami and you get all these
different options of places where you
can target and I'm gonna go ahead and
target Miami Florida so now as you can
see here on the right hand side and the
map
Miami is highlighted in blue and I'm
only targeting people within this area
so only the people in Miami can see my
ad with location targeting now let's go
ahead and use the example of radius
targeting so we're gonna go out and
click on radius here and now I'm gonna
search Miami again I'm gonna target
Miami but now with radius targeting I'm
only targeting people within 20 miles of
Miami so you guys can see here this 20
miles right here that's what's setting
up this perimeter of people who can see
my ad so anyone who isn't in this blue
circle cannot see my ad only the people
within this blue circle can actually see
my ad so this is super useful if you
have a local business and you only want
to reach people who are actually within
driving distance of your business so
this is a way you can really get ahead
and make sure you're reaching the right
people and if you want to go ahead and
adjust how far this radius is around
your address that you want to target you
can go ahead and click on this little
pencil right here on targeted location
and just go ahead and change the mile
radius of where you want to target and
you can get as specific as you want guys
so make sure that you're really reaching
the right people so let's just go ahead
and say I want to reach everyone within
5 miles let's get very narrow I just hit
save and now everyone within five miles
of Miami can see my ad and you can get
even more specific with this let's say
we want to do is zip code everyone
within this is it go three three one
seventy-five
you can see my ad and we're going to
change the radius to ten miles look at
that so now only people within ten miles
of this zip code can see this ad this is
what you call effective targeting guys
now let's go ahead and show locations in
bulk for bulk targeting just go ahead
and click on add locations in bulk and
here you can just go ahead and type in
all the different areas that you want to
target so if you have a whole bunch of
zip codes like I had said earlier you
can just go ahead and copy and paste all
your locations in here and you can
target them so we just hit search and
then it'll pull up the different areas
that you're trying to reach I will just
click target all and then boom just like
that now we're targeting Michigan and
we're targeting Miami
another great way of finding places
where you want to target or exclude you
just go ahead and click on show all
areas right here on the right-hand side
on the map just turn that on and you can
click on this little drop-down arrow and
you can show all areas or you can show
postal codes so if you want to see
specific zip codes for a certain area so
we're looking right now let's see if we
want to we want to zoom in further and
find out the zip codes so if you just
click on it you can see this is one zip
code here in Tennessee this is another
one and that way you can get really
granular and see exactly what zip codes
you want to target and get really
specific so again you just click here on
this drop-down you hit show postal code
and it'll show you all the different zip
codes here in Tennessee that you can
potentially target or exclude depending
on your goals another thing too is you
can do by county and it'll show you the
counties as well if you want to go a
little bit broader same thing by city
it'll show you the different cities and
then of course you can also do
congressional district which is pretty
insane so you have a lot of options here
with targeting on how you want to go
about targeting for your business and
this little map feature here is a great
way of finding zip codes and cities and
things like that that you're not maybe
you don't really know and you want to
find out what they are
especially the zip code feature I found
it really useful now let's say if in the
case you want to exclude locations all
right so the same way you target the
locations is the same way you exclude
them so it'll go ahead and exclude
locations
just click the excluded tab right here
next to target and now we're in the
excluded tab and just click on that blue
pencil and now go ahead and type the
locations that you want to exclude so
let's say we want to exclude Orlando
Florida so I'm gonna go ahead and click
exclude and now Orlando is excluded well
let's say I want to get a little bit
more specific I don't want to just
exclude all of Orlando I want to exclude
a specific piece of it so I'm gonna go
ahead and click on show all areas here
on the map and I'm gonna have it set by
zip code and then I can go ahead and
look here in Orlando and let's say I
want to only exclude 32 8:09 so now I
have that set I'm going to go ahead and
remove or
Lando here and now only this piece of
Orlando this zip code is getting
excluded and you just go ahead and save
and now as you can see only this piece
is excluded in Orlando okay now that we
have our targeted location set up in our
excluded location setup let's go ahead
and make sure we have the correct
location settings on so that way the
right people see our ad so to find our
location settings just go ahead and look
at the settings right here above
locations and click on that and now
we're here in the campaign settings and
just kind of scroll down here to where
it says locations and here it's going to
show you the areas which you're
targeting and the areas which you're
excluding so we're targeting Miami
Florida
we're targeting Michigan and we're
excluding that ZIP code in Orlando 232
809 now to go ahead and make sure that
our settings are set up correctly go
ahead and click on locations options
down here and now here this is super
important you want to make sure you
always have the correct location option
set up that way your ads are actually
reaching the right people so there are
three different types of location
settings you can set up the first one is
people in or who show interest in your
targeted locations now this is a great
example of targeting that you would want
if let's say you were a hotel so with
this type of setting you're gonna reach
people that are not only physically
located let's say in Miami and Michigan
in this example but you're also gonna
reach people who are showing interest
and we're searching for Miami and
Michigan so if your hotel and you offer
rooms to people in Miami or Michigan you
want to make sure you're reaching people
who are physically located in the area
but you might also want to reach people
who are vacationing and they're
searching from Miami and Michigan hotels
from abroad so this would be a great
option for you now let's say you're a
local business and you only serve as
customers within your area so you only
want to reach people who are physically
located within your targeted location
then this second option is for you
people in your target location so if
you're a local business or you do
business within your area and you only
want to reach people within your area
make sure you only have people in your
target location set up and now the last
option is people searching for your
target locations so this is only
reaching people who are not physically
located in your locate
that you're targeting but that are far
away they're abroad and they're
searching and they show interest so if I
live in Texas and I'm searching for
Miami then I will see an ad that's Miami
related because I have this set up now
the same way you can set up your
targeting settings you can do your
excluded location settings as well so if
you want to exclude people that are in
or show interest in your excluded
locations you just go ahead and click
that and if you only want to exclude
people that are physically located in
your excluded locations then you would
click the second option most of the
times you're going to have the first one
set up and if you're a local business
you'll have the people in your targeted
locations now that we have everything
just right we have our settings correct
we have our targeting correct we have
our exclusions correct let's go ahead
and see how we can improve upon what
we're doing so make sure you save your
settings on your location settings and
now go ahead and go back into that
locations tab and now what we can do is
once our campaigns are running we get
data what's gonna happen is in this tab
we'll see how we're performing per
location we're targeting so we'll see
the clicks the impressions how many
conversions and so forth so for example
let's say Michigan is doing amazing it's
doing great we're getting tons of leads
and we really want to make sure that we
give Michigan we spend more on Michigan
because we can afford it and we can
become more competitive so that's what
these things called bid adjustments are
for where you can allow yourself to
spend more on certain locations so just
go ahead and mouse over the location you
want to set a bit adjustment for click
on that pencil and then you can set the
percentage increase on how much more
you'd like to bid for that location so
let's say we want to bid 20% more and we
had save so now our bid is set 20%
higher for Michigan so that way we can
be more competitive in that area and
reach more people now another great way
of looking at your data and seeing how
your locations are performing is using
the geographic report the geographic
report is located right here next to the
excluded tab and just go ahead and click
on Geographic report and this shows you
all the locations that trigger your ads
so as data comes in you can actually get
very granular and see exactly how your
locations are performing and this gives
you another way of looking at it so
maybe you see a certain zip
code is working really well and you can
go ahead and set a bit adjustment at the
zip code level another one is the user
location report and this shows you where
all the customers were when they
actually saw your ad and this just gives
you another way of looking at the data
of your location targeting so you can go
ahead and make the best decision and now
the last one is the per store report and
with this report if you have your Google
my business listing set up correctly and
you integrated with your AdWords account
this can show you how people are
interacting with your listing and
visiting your store so this gives you
another way of looking at the
effectiveness of your location targeting
okay guys now you know everything it is
you need to know about location
targeting so you can start implementing
this in your Google ads campaigns right
away so you can start dominating your
local markets now I wanted to go ahead
and give you guys two additional tips
just to make sure you're really
maximizing the most you can with these
location-based campaigns so the first
tip I have for you is to use location
related keywords so for example if
you're a DJ service company in Miami use
key words like Miami DJ services same
thing if you're a personal trainer Miami
personal trainer or maybe a roofing
company Miami roofing company making
sure you use those geo related location
related keywords really helps give you
an edge when bidding and these
location-based campaigns ok the second
tip I have for you is to use location
related ads so here's an example of an
ad for Miami personal trainers so if I'm
searching for a personal trainer in
Miami use the word Miami in your ads it
makes it that much more relevant for me
as a person in Miami looking for a
personal trainer so here's an example of
an ad says best Miami personal trainers
so using that Geo related keyword in
your ad is huge so use it in your
headlines and use it in your description
lines as well that's it for this video
guys I hope you got some value from this
if you did please go ahead and leave a
comment down below tell me what you
enjoyed tell me if I didn't explain
something well enough and how can I
improve it and if you did give value
please go ahead and hit that like button
and subscribe and stay tuned for future
content take care
[Music]